[Expandable flyout] Task 1: Alert details flyout rewrite and doc new advanced setting (#3816)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/alerts-view-details.asciidoc

+
NOTE: The rule's status and severity is passed down to the alert. 

* Click the **Table** or **JSON** tabs to display the alert details in table or JSON format. In table format, alert details are displayed as field-value pairs. 

[discrete]
[[preview-panel]]
=== Preview panel 

The preview panel shows a more detailed view of the rule that generated the alert. It also offers an event rendered view of the alert reason. 

NOTE: The event renderer only displays if an event renderer exists for the alert type. Fields are interactive; hover over to access the available actions.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expandable-flyout-preview-panel.png[Preview panel of the alert details flyout, 50%]

[discrete]
[[left-panel]]
=== Left panel 

The left panel provides more details about sections within the right panel.  To open the left panel, click **Expand details** at the top of the right panel or click on a section title in the right panel. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expandable-flyout-left-panel.png[Left panel of the alert details flyout, 80%]

[discrete]
[[about-section]]

> == About 

Author: See above comment.

* Click a section title in the right panel. 
+

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-details-flyout-left-panel.png[Left panel of the alert details flyout, 45%]

[discrete]
[[about-section]]
== About 

The About section in the right panel provides the following information:

* **Rule description**: Describes the rule's purpose or detection goals. Click **Show rule summary** to display more details about the rule within the <<preview-panel,preview panel>>.

* **Alert reason**: Describes the source event that generated the alert. Event details are displayed in plain text and ordered logically to provide context for the alert. Click **Show full reason** to display the alert reason in the event rendered format within the <<preview-panel,preview panel>>.  
+
NOTE: The event renderer only displays if an event renderer exists for the alert type. Fields are interactive; hover over them to access the available actions.

* **MITRE ATT&CK**: Provides relevant https://attack.mitre.org/[MITRE ATT&CK] framework tactics, techniques, and sub-techniques.

[discrete]
[[investigation-section]]
== Investigation 

The Investigation section in the right panel provides the following information:

> * **Investigation guide**: A interactive investigation guide displays if the rule associated with the alert has an investigation guide. 

Author: Thanks for the feedback here, @christineweng. Can you share more on how you'd like to see these components described in the docs? In the past, we've generally referred to the investigation guide feature as "an interactive investigation guide", which is why I used it here. Should it be called something else in the right panel of the flyout?

> * **Investigation guide**: A interactive investigation guide displays if the rule associated with the alert has an investigation guide. 

Author: Updated in [92e7483](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3816/commits/92e7483737ae677dde652ff744e29966975d4730).

* **Analyzer preview**: Shows a preview of the <<visual-event-analyzer,visual analyzer graph>>. The preview displays up to three levels of the analyzed event's ancestors and up to three levels of the event's descendants and children. The ellipses symbol (**`...`**) indicates the event has more ancestors and descendants to examine. Click **Analyzer preview** to open the **Event Analyzer** tab in Timeline.

[discrete]
[[insights-section]]
== Insights 

The Insights section in the right panel offers different perspectives from which you can assess the alert. 

Click **Insights** to display the following sub-sections:

* <<entities-section>>
* <<threat-intelligence-section>> 
* <<correlations-section>>
* <<prevalence-section>>

[discrete]
[[entities-section]]
=== Entities 

The Entities sub-section shows the user related to the alert and the host on which the alert was generated against. <<host-risk-score,Host>> and <<user-risk-score,user risk>> scores are also available with a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum subscription] or higher. 

NOTE: User and host risk scores are technical preview features. 

> Click **Entities** to expand the **Entities** sub-tab in the left panel. The **Entities** sub-tab provides more information about the user and host. 

Reviewer: I think we can add more to the entities section, similar to others. the `related users` and `related hosts` tables are new in 8.10 and they are available only in the new flyout. we should highlight what you wrote in the tooltips i.e. `these users log in to this host after this alert is triggered`

Author: Addressed in [f9cbf44](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3816/commits/f9cbf44419d47058906aee164a3b490e76d9e75e).

:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [reference]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [manage]

To learn more about an alert, click the *View details* button from the Alerts table. This opens the alert details flyout, which provides you with a central place to assess the alert. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/open-alert-details-flyout.gif[Expandable flyout, 90%]

Use the alert details to begin an investigation, open a case, or plan a response. At the bottom of the flyout, click **Take action** to find more actions that you can take on the alert.  

> NOTE: To use the alert details flyout, turn off the <<enable-expandable-flyout,`securitySolution:enableExpandableFlyout`>> advanced setting.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: To use the alert details flyout design that was available in {elastic-sec} 8.9 and earlier, turn off the <<enable-expandable-flyout,`securitySolution:enableExpandableFlyout`>> advanced setting. 
```

+
NOTE: The event renderer only displays if an event renderer exists for the alert type. Fields are interactive; hover over them to access the available actions.

* **MITRE ATT&CK**: Provides relevant https://attack.mitre.org/[MITRE ATT&CK] framework tactics, techniques, and sub-techniques.

[discrete]
[[investigation-section]]
== Investigation 

The Investigation section in the right panel has the following information:

* **Investigation guide**: A interactive investigation guide displays if the rule associated with the alert has an investigation guide. 
+
TIP: To add an investigation guide to a custom rule, <<edit-rules-settings,modify the rule's advanced settings>>. 

* **Highlighted fields**: Shows relevant fields for the alert and any custom highlighted fields you added to the rule. 
//link to custom highlighted fields docs

[discrete]
[[visualizations-section]]
== Visualizations 

The Visualizations section in the right panel offers a glimpse of the processes that led up to the alert and occurred after it. Click **Visualizations** to display the following sub-sections:

> * **Session view preview**: Shows a preview of <<session-view,session view>> data. Click **Session viewer preview** to open the **Session View** tab in Timeline. 

Author: @PhilippeOberti @paulewing what does the preview show, when one is available? I'm still not sure how to describe it in the docs.

Author: Resolving since the PR was approved during the tech review.

* Click **Chat** to access the <<security-assistant>>.
* Click **Share alert** to get a shareable URL to the alert. We _do not_ recommend copying the URL from your browser's address bar. The URL creates inconsistent results if you've set up filters or relative time ranges for the Alerts page. 
+
NOTE: If you've configured the {kibana-ref}/settings.html#server-publicBaseUrl[`server.publicBaseUrl`] setting in the `kibana.yml` file, the shareable URL is also in the `kibana.alert.url` field. You can find the field by searching for `kibana.alert.url` on the *Table* tab.
+
IMPORTANT: If you've enabled grouping on the Alerts page, the alert details flyout won't open until you expand the collapsed group.

* Find basic details about the alert, such as the:

** Associated rule
** Alert status
** Date and time the alert was created
** Alert severity and risk score (these are inherited from rule that generated the alert)

* Click the **Table** or **JSON** tabs to display the alert details in table or JSON format. In table format, alert details are displayed as field-value pairs. 

[discrete]
[[preview-panel]]
=== Preview panel 

> The preview panel shows more information about the rule associated with the alert and the alert reason. This panel overlays the right panel when you click **Show rule details** or **Show full reason** in the <<about-section,About>> section. To close the preview panel, click **x**. 

Author: ```suggestion
The preview panel shows more information about the rule associated with the alert and the reason the alert was generated. This panel overlays the right panel when you click **Show rule details** or **Show full reason** in the <<about-section,About>> section. To close the preview panel, click **x**. 
```

+
NOTE: The event renderer only displays if an event renderer exists for the alert type. Fields are interactive; hover over them to access the available actions.

* **MITRE ATT&CK**: Provides relevant https://attack.mitre.org/[MITRE ATT&CK] framework tactics, techniques, and sub-techniques.

[discrete]
[[investigation-section]]
== Investigation 

The Investigation section is located on the **Overview** tab in the right panel. It offers a couple of ways to begin investigating the alert. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/investigation-section-rp.png[Investigation section of the Overview tab, 65%]

The Investigation section provides the following information:

* **Investigation guide**: The **Show investigation guide** button displays if the rule associated with the alert has an investigation guide. Click the button to open the **Investigation** tab in the left panel of the alert details flyout.  
+
TIP: Add an <<add-ig-actions-rule,investigation guide>> to a rule when creating a new custom rule or modifying an existing custom rule's settings.

> * **Highlighted fields**: Shows relevant fields for the alert and any custom highlighted fields you added to the rule. 

Author: @yctercero just an fyi that I doc'd the custom highlighted fields functionality here too.

[discrete]
[[insights-section]]
== Insights 

The Insights section is located on the **Overview** tab in the right panel. It offers different perspectives from which you can assess the alert. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/insights-section-rp.png[Insights section of the Overview tab, 65%]

Click **Insights** to display the following sub-sections:

* <<entities-section>>
* <<threat-intelligence-section>> 
* <<correlations-section>>
* <<prevalence-section>>

[discrete]
[[entities-section]]
=== Entities 

The Entities sub-section shows the user related to the alert and the host on which the alert was generated against. <<host-risk-score,Host>> and <<user-risk-score,user risk>> scores are also available with a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum subscription] or higher. 

NOTE: User and host risk scores are technical preview features. 

Click **Entities** to expand the **Entities** sub-tab in the left panel. The **Entities** sub-tab provides more information about the user and host, including notable activity on related hosts and users. 

[discrete]
[[threat-intelligence-section]]
=== Threat intelligence 

> The Threat intelligence sub-section shows contextually relevant threat intelligence that was discovered on the alert. When gathering threat intelligence data for an alert, {elastic-sec} queries the alert for indicator matches from the past 30 days. The query looks for the following fields:

Reviewer 2: what do you mean by sub-section here? Do you mean sub-tab (which would be the left panel under Insights) or do you mean the section that we expand in the right panel (what I usually call the overview)

Author: Resolving in next batch of updates.

NOTE: <<user-risk-score,User>> and <<host-risk-score,host>> risk scores are technical preview features. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/entities-overview.png[Overview of the entity details  section in the right panel, 60%]

[discrete]
[[expanded-entities-view]]
==== Expanded entities view

From the right panel, click **Entities** to open a detailed view of the host an user associated with the alert. The expanded view also includes risk scores and classifications (if you have a Platinum subscription or higher) and activity on related hosts and users. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expanded-entities-view.png[Expanded view of entity details, 70%]

[discrete]
[[threat-intelligence-overview]]
=== Threat intelligence 

The Threat intelligence overview shows matched indicators, which provide contextually relevant threat intelligence on the alert. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/threat-intelligence-overview.png[Overview of threat intelligence on the alert, 70%]

> To gather threat intelligence on an alert, {elastic-sec} queries alert documents from the past 30 days and searches for fields that contain known threat intelligence. {elastic-sec} looks for the following fields:

Reviewer 3: Have a bit of confusion, because this section related to 

**Fields enriched with threat intelligence**

But currently it looks like, that if for both **Fields enriched with threat intelligence** and **Threat match detected**

Another confusion is that for **Expanded threat intelligence view**, we have the same mechanism, but their described a bit differently.

But it the same things, in for enrichments, only difference that in this section we show how much enrichment, and on other we show it in details

Author: @nikitaindik to clarify, are you saying that this information only applies to non-indicator match alerts that have fields enriched with threat intelligence? Or, does this information apply to all alert types (i.e., indicator match alerts and non-indicator match alerts) that contain threat intelligence?

Reviewer 3: wrong Nikita in the handle:)

Yes. this describe hot real-time enrichments works, but not IM rule

Because for IM rule you can specify other time range and other fields, and then it persist enrichment info in alert document

Author: Oops! Sorry about that 😅 

Ok, I'll move this information to the correct spot then. Thank you!

:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [reference]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [manage]

> To learn more about an alert, click the *View details* button from the Alerts table. This opens the alert details flyout, which provides you with a central place to assess the alert. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To learn more about an alert, click the *View details* button from the Alerts table. This opens the alert details flyout, which helps you understand and manage the alert. 
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/open-alert-details-flyout.gif[Expandable flyout, 90%]

Use the alert details flyout to begin an investigation, open a case, or plan a response. Click **Take action** at the bottom of the flyout to find more options for interacting with the alert.

> NOTE: To use the alert details flyout design from {elastic-sec} 8.9 and earlier, turn off the <<enable-expandable-flyout,`securitySolution:enableExpandableFlyout`>> advanced setting. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: To use the simplified alert details flyout design from {elastic-sec} 8.9 and earlier, turn off the <<enable-expandable-flyout,`securitySolution:enableExpandableFlyout`>> advanced setting. 
```

[discrete]
[[alert-details-flyout-ui]]
== Alert details flyout UI 

The alert details flyout has a right panel, a preview panel, and a left panel. Each panel provides a different perspective of the alert.  

[discrete]
[[right-panel]]
=== Right panel 

The right panel provides an overview of the alert. Expand any of the collapsed sections to learn more about the alert. You can also hover over fields on the *Overview* and *Table* tabs to display available <<inline-actions, inline actions>>. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/alert-details-flyout-right-panel.png[Right panel of the alert details flyout, 65%]

From the right panel, you can also:

* Click **Expand details** to open the <<left-panel,left panel>>, which shows more information about sections in the right panel.
* Click **Chat** to access the <<security-assistant>>.

> * Click **Share alert** to get a shareable URL to the alert. We _do not_ recommend copying the URL from your browser's address bar. The URL creates inconsistent results if you've set up filters or relative time ranges for the Alerts page. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Click **Share alert** to get a shareable alert URL. We _do not_ recommend copying the URL from your browser's address bar, which can lead to inconsistent results if you've set up filters or relative time ranges for the Alerts page. 
```

+
NOTE: If you've configured the {kibana-ref}/settings.html#server-publicBaseUrl[`server.publicBaseUrl`] setting in the `kibana.yml` file, the shareable URL is also in the `kibana.alert.url` field. You can find the field by searching for `kibana.alert.url` on the *Table* tab.
+

> IMPORTANT: If you've enabled grouping on the Alerts page, the alert details flyout won't open until you expand the collapsed group.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: If you've enabled grouping on the Alerts page, the alert details flyout won't open until you expand a collapsed group and select an individual alert.
```

[discrete]
[[insights-section]]
== Insights 

The Insights section is located on the **Overview** tab in the right panel. It offers different perspectives from which you can assess the alert. Click **Insights** to display overviews for <<entities-overview,related entities>>, <<threat-intelligence-overview,threat intelligence>>, <<correlations-overview,correlated data>>, and <<prevalence-overview,host and user prevalence>>.  

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/insights-section-rp.png[Insights section of the Overview tab, 65%]

[discrete]
[[entities-overview]]
=== Entities 

The Entities overview provides high-level details about the user and host that are related to the alert. Host and user risk classifications are also available with a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum subscription] or higher. 

NOTE: <<user-risk-score,User>> and <<host-risk-score,host>> risk scores are technical preview features. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/entities-overview.png[Overview of the entity details  section in the right panel, 60%]

[discrete]
[[expanded-entities-view]]
==== Expanded entities view

> From the right panel, click **Entities** to open a detailed view of the host an user associated with the alert. The expanded view also includes risk scores and classifications (if you have a Platinum subscription or higher) and activity on related hosts and users. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From the right panel, click **Entities** to open a detailed view of the host and user associated with the alert. The expanded view also includes risk scores and classifications (if you have a Platinum subscription or higher) and activity on related hosts and users. 
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expanded-entities-view.png[Expanded view of entity details, 70%]

[discrete]
[[threat-intelligence-overview]]
=== Threat intelligence 

> The Threat intelligence overview shows matched indicators, which provide contextually relevant threat intelligence on the alert. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Threat intelligence overview shows matched indicators, which provide threat intelligence relevant to the alert. 
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/threat-intelligence-overview.png[Overview of threat intelligence on the alert, 70%]

The Threat intelligence overview provides the following information:

> * **Threat match detected**: Shows the number of matched indicators that are present in the alert's document. This information is only available if you're examining an alert was generated from an <<create-indicator-rule,indicator match>> rule. If there are no matched indicators, or you're not examining an alert that wasn't generated from an indicator match rule, the total number of matched indicators is zero.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Threat match detected**: Only available when examining an alert generated from an <<create-indicator-rule,indicator match>> rule. Shows the number of matched indicators that are present in the alert document. Shows zero if there are no matched indicators or you're examining an alert generated by another type of rule.
```

* **Fields enriched with threat intelligence**: Shows the number of matched indicators that are present on an alert that _wasn't_ generated from an indicator match rule. If none exist, the total number of matched indicators is zero.

[discrete]
[[expanded-threat-intel-view]]
==== Expanded threat intelligence view

From the right panel, click **Threat intelligence** to open the expanded Threat intelligence view within the left panel. 

NOTE: The expanded threat intelligence view queries indices specified in the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` advanced setting. Refer to <<update-threat-intel-indices, Update default Elastic Security threat intelligence indices>> to learn more about threat intelligence indices. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expanded-threat-intelligence-view.png[Expanded view of threat intelligence on the alert, 70%]

> The expanded Threat intelligence view shows individual indicators within the alert document. You can expand and collapse indicator details by clicking the arrow button at the end of the indicator label. Each indicator is labelled with values from the `matched.field` and `matched.atomic` fields and displays the threat intelligence provider. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The expanded Threat intelligence view shows individual indicators within the alert document. You can expand and collapse indicator details by clicking the arrow button at the end of the indicator label. Each indicator is labeled with values from the `matched.field` and `matched.atomic` fields and displays the threat intelligence provider. 
```

Matched threats are organized into two sections, described below. Within each section, matched threats are shown in reverse chronological order, with the most recent at the top. All mapped fields are displayed for each matched threat.

**Threat match detected**

The Threat match detected section is only populated with indicator match details if you're examining an alert that was generated from an indicator match rule. Indicator matches occur when alert field values match with threat intelligence data you've ingested. 

**Fields enriched with threat intelligence**

Threat intelligence can also be found on alerts that weren't generated from indicator match rules. To find this information, {elastic-sec} queries alert documents from the past 30 days and searches for fields that contain known threat intelligence. If any are found, they're logged in this section. 

{elastic-sec} searches the alert document for the following fields:

> NOTE: Additional threat intelligence data is generated for indicator match alerts when indicators are matched with source events, as outlined by the conditions in the relevant indicator match rule. 

Author: Spoke with @nkhristinin on this note and, with this rewrite, it no longer seems necessary. 

```suggestion
```

If these fields aren't available, {elastic-sec} does not perform the query and does not display threat intelligence data for the alert.

> Additional threat intelligence data is generated for indicator match alerts when indicators are matched with source events, as outlined by the conditions in the relevant indicator match rule. Indicator match alerts always populate the *Threat Matched Detected* section under the *Threat Intel* tab with additional threat match data.

Reviewer 2: *Threat Intel* tab?

Author: I'll fix this, good catch! This portion of the docs was copied from "old" docs, which contain references to components in the "old" flyout.

```suggestion
Additional threat intelligence data is generated for indicator match alerts when indicators are matched with source events, as outlined by the conditions in the relevant indicator match rule. Indicator match alerts always populate the *Threat Matched Detected* section under the *Threat intelligence* tab with additional threat match data.
```

> Click **Threat intelligence** to expand the **Threat intelligence** sub-tab in the left panel. Within the sub-tab, matched threats are organized into two sections: <<threat-match-detected-section>> and <<enriched-with-threat-intelligence-section>>. Matched threats are ordered in reverse chronological order, with the most recent at the top. All mapped fields are displayed for each matched threat.

Reviewer 2: super small nit, but aren't `ordered in reverse chronological order` and `with the most recent at the top` saying the same thing?

Author: It's saying similar things, but I think we should keep the second part because it adds clarity.

[discrete]
[[threat-match-detected-section]]
==== Threat match detected

> The Threat match detected section is solely reserved for threat indicator matches identified by an indicator match rule. Threat indicator matches are produced whenever event data matches a threat indicator field value in your indicator index. If indicator threat matches are not discovered, the section displays a message that none are available.

Author: With the new copy, I don't think we need this information anymore. 

```suggestion
The Threat match detected section is solely reserved for threat indicator matches identified by an indicator match rule. Threat indicator matches are produced whenever event data matches a threat indicator field value in your indicator index. 
```

[discrete]
[[enriched-with-threat-intelligence-section]]
==== Enriched with threat intelligence

The Enriched with threat intelligence section shows indicator matches that {elastic-sec} found when querying the alert for fields with threat intelligence. You can use the date time picker to modify the query time frame, which looks at the past 30 days by default. 

> Click the **Inspect** button, located on the far right of the threat label, to view more information on the query. If threat matches are not discovered within the selected time frame, the section displays a message that none are available.

Reviewer 2: well, I spoke too fast, this section also talk about the no-data message. I'll leave it up to you to keep or remove both.

Author: Same comment as above. Though, I'm not sure if the first sentence still applies - @christineweng do you happen to know if the **Inspect** button still exists in the Enriched with threat intelligence section? I can't find an alert that has threat intel enrichments in the test deployment you shared. 

```suggestion
Click the **Inspect** button, located on the far right of the threat label, to view more information on the query.
```

Reviewer: @nastasha-solomon inspect button is available, I found an alert with enriched TI data :)
<img width="635" alt="image" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/18648970/e7a17522-f307-4ef8-9447-6b2d3abaae86">

Author: Thanks for confirming! I'll keep this line and merge the change.

NOTE: The event enrichment query uses the indices specified in the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` advanced setting. For more information, refer to <<update-threat-intel-indices, Update default Elastic Security threat intelligence indices>>.

[discrete]
[[correlations-section]]
=== Correlations 

The Correlations sub-section shows how an alert is related to other alerts and offers ways to investigate related alerts. Use this information to quickly find patterns between alerts and then take action. 

Click **Correlations** to expand the **Correlations** sub-tab in the left panel. The sub-tab displays the following information: 

> * **Suppressed alerts**: Indicates that the alert was created with alert suppression, and shows how many duplicate alerts were suppressed. This section only appears if alert suppression is enabled for the rule.

Author: @christineweng is a plat or higher license a requirement for displaying the **Suppressed alerts** section in the **Correlations** tabs? Or is it only a requirement for using the alert suppression feature when creating a rule? If it's the latter, we've already doc'd this information in areas that are more specific to rules (see step 2 in the create rule [docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/8.9/rules-ui-create.html#create-custom-rule) and [this page](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/8.9/alert-suppression.html).

> * **Suppressed alerts**: Indicates that the alert was created with alert suppression, and shows how many duplicate alerts were suppressed. This section only appears if alert suppression is enabled for the rule.

Author: Ok, cool. I'll resolve this thread since we're gtg from the docs side - thanks!

> * **Alerts related by source event**: Shows the ten most recent alerts created by the same source event. This can help you find alerts with a shared origin and provide more context about the source event. Click the **Investigate in timeline** button to examine related alerts in Timeline.

Reviewer 2: `Click the **Investigate in timeline** button to examine related alerts in Timeline.`
This confused me a bit. Looking at the sections above this one, I though we were describing the right panel. But the `Investigate in timeline` button does not appear in the right section, only in the left section above each table within the correlations sub-tab

Author: I can see how this can be confusing - I'll follow the structure that I've used in other sections and stick with primarily describing what's in the right panel. Changes incoming...

Author: Addressed in [92e7483](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3816/commits/92e7483737ae677dde652ff744e29966975d4730).

* **Cases related to the alert**: Shows the total number and names of cases to which the alert has been added. Click a case’s name to open its details.

If you have a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or higher subscription], these details are also included:

> * **Alerts related by session ID**: Shows the ten most recent alerts generated during the same <<session-view, session>>. These alerts share the same session ID, which is a unique ID for tracking a given Linux session. To use this feature, you must enable the **Include session data** setting in your {elastic-defend} integration policy. Refer to <<enable-session-view, Enable Session View data>> for more information.

Reviewer: i don't think related by session is guarded by license @PhilippeOberti is that correct? though it could be confusing that session view does require platinum license

Reviewer 2: In our code, related by session is not protected by any license check. I do not know if that is the expected behavior though...

Author: Thanks, both! Let me know if the line about license reqs needs to be removed. This content was copied from the old flyout docs so it reflects the way that data for this section was handled/displayed in the old flyout.

Author: On that note, a good amount of the content in this draft was repurposed from the old alert details flyout docs. My general understanding of the flyout redesign was that the UI and flows had changed, but the pre-reqs for using certain feature within the flyout hadn't.

Author: Confirmed with @christineweng via Slack that data for alerts related by session is available with a basic license in 8.10. Alerts related by process ancestry data is still only available for users with a plat or higher license.

Author: Addressed in [92e7483](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3816/commits/92e7483737ae677dde652ff744e29966975d4730).

[discrete]
[[prevalence-section]]
=== Prevalence

The Prevalence sub-section shows how often data from the alert was observed on other host and user events. Prevalence calculations use data from the alert's highlighted fields and examine user and host events that occurred during the last 30 days. Click **Prevalence** to display the <<prevalence-sub-tab,Prevalence sub-tab>> in the left panel. 

[discrete]
[[prevalence-sub-tab]]
==== Prevalence sub-tab

The **Prevalence** sub-tab shows relationships with other alerts, events, users, and hosts. Update the date time picker to show data from a different time range. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/prevalence-sub-tab.png[Table within the Prevalence sub-tab, 70%]

The following details are provided:

* **Field**: Shows the alert's highlighted fields.
* **Value**: Shows values from the alert's highlighted fields. 
* **Alert count**: Shows the total number of alert documents that have identical field-value pairs, including the alert you're currently examining. 
+

> NOTE: Queries for the **Alert count** column only retrieve alert documents that have the `event.kind:signal` field-value pair.  

Reviewer 2: I would remove the word `alert` _{...} in only retrieve alert documents that have the {...}_

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: Queries for the **Alert count** column only retrieve documents that have the `event.kind:signal` field-value pair.  
```

* **Document count**: Shows the total number of event documents that contain identical field-value pairs. A dash (`——`) displays if there are no event documents that contain the field-value pair.
+

> NOTE: Queries for the **Document count** column only retrieve alert documents that do not have the `event.kind:signal` field-value pair.  

Reviewer 2: same here, I would remove the word `alert` _{...} in column only retrieve alert documents that do {...}_

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: Queries for the **Document count** column only retriev documents that do not have the `event.kind:signal` field-value pair.  
```

> * **Host prevalence**: Shows the percentage of unique hosts that have identical field-value pairs.  

Reviewer 2: in the few bullet points above we say `the field-value pair` and here in this point and the next we say `identical field-value pairs`. Is there a reason we have single and plural?

Author: Rewrote this section in [f9cbf44](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/3816/commits/f9cbf44419d47058906aee164a3b490e76d9e75e). Let me know if the revised content still needs changes - thanks!

[discrete]
[[correlations-section]]
=== Correlations 

The Correlations sub-section shows how an alert is related to other alerts and offers ways to investigate related alerts. Use this information to quickly find patterns between alerts and then take action. 

Click **Correlations** to expand the **Correlations** sub-tab in the left panel. The sub-tab displays the following information: 

* **Suppressed alerts**: Indicates that the alert was created with alert suppression, and shows how many duplicate alerts were suppressed. This section only appears if alert suppression is enabled for the rule.
* **Alerts related by source event**: Shows the ten most recent alerts created by the same source event. This can help you find alerts with a shared origin and provide more context about the source event. Click the **Investigate in timeline** button to examine related alerts in Timeline.
* **Cases related to the alert**: Shows the total number and names of cases to which the alert has been added. Click a case’s name to open its details.

If you have a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or higher subscription], these details are also included:

> * *Alerts related by session ID* - Shows the ten most recent alerts generated during the same <<session-view, session>>. These alerts share the same session ID, which is a unique ID for tracking a given Linux session. To use this feature, you must enable the *Include session data* setting in your {elastic-defend} integration policy. Refer to <<enable-session-view, Enable Session View data>> for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Alerts related by session ID**: Shows the ten most recent alerts generated during the same <<session-view, session>>. These alerts share the same session ID, which is a unique ID for tracking a given Linux session. To use this feature, you must enable the **Include session data** setting in your {elastic-defend} integration policy. Refer to <<enable-session-view, Enable Session View data>> for more information.
```

> * *Alerts related by process ancestry* - Shows alerts that are related by process events on the same linear branch. Note that alerts generated from processes on child or related branches are not shown. To further examine alerts, click *Investigate in timeline*.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Alerts related by process ancestry**: Shows alerts that are related by process events on the same linear branch. Note that alerts generated from processes on child or related branches are not shown. To further examine alerts, click **Investigate in timeline**.
```

[discrete]
[[threat-match-detected-section]]
==== Threat match detected

The Threat match detected section is solely reserved for threat indicator matches identified by an indicator match rule. Threat indicator matches are produced whenever event data matches a threat indicator field value in your indicator index. 

[discrete]
[[enriched-with-threat-intelligence-section]]
==== Enriched with threat intelligence

The Enriched with threat intelligence section shows indicator matches that {elastic-sec} found when querying the alert for fields with threat intelligence. You can use the date time picker to modify the query time frame, which looks at the past 30 days by default. 

Click the **Inspect** button, located on the far right of the threat label, to view more information on the query.

NOTE: The event enrichment query uses the indices specified in the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` advanced setting. For more information, refer to <<update-threat-intel-indices, Update default Elastic Security threat intelligence indices>>.

[discrete]
[[correlations-section]]
=== Correlations 

> The Correlations sub-section shows how an alert is related to other alerts and offers ways to investigate related alerts. Use this information to quickly find patterns between alerts and then take action. 

Reviewer 2: same question as for the Threat Intelligence, sub-section could be better defined.

Maybe for each of these sections (Entities, Threat Intelligence, Correlations, Prevalence) you could have a small sentence explaining what we do in the overview (= what's in the right panel) then focus on the expanded section (= right panel which is the descriptions you currently have I believe)

Thoughts?

Author: Sorry, I'm not fully understanding the ask here. Are you requesting that every part of the left panel be documented? In the docs for each section within the right panel, I briefly touch on what's shown in the left panel expanded view, but I don't go into too much detail because the UI copy elaborates on the left panel components/tables/etc.

Author: Thinking about this further, I can create child sections within the main sections (Entities, Threat intelligence, Correlations, Prevalence) and move all information that's related to the the expanded view (i.e., what's shown in the left panel) and there. 

The TOC outline would look like this:

- [Insights](https://security-docs_3816.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/view-alert-details.html#insights-section): Describe the purpose of the Insights section in the right panel. 
   - [Entities](https://security-docs_3816.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/view-alert-details.html#entities-section): Describe the user and host overview that we provide in the right panel. 
     - Entity details: Describe the more detailed view that users get when they examine the Entities sub-tab in the left panel.
   - [Threat intelligence](https://security-docs_3816.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/view-alert-details.html#threat-intelligence-section): Describe the threat intel overview that we provide in the right panel. 
      - Threat intelligence details: Describe the more detailed view that users get when they examine the Threat intelligence sub-tab in the left panel. Also describe how that view is populated.
   - [Correlations](https://security-docs_3816.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/view-alert-details.html#correlations-section): Describe the summarized correlation details that we provide in the right panel. 
      - Correlation details: Describe what's shown in the individual tables that display in the Correlations sub-tab.
   - [Prevalence](https://security-docs_3816.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/view-alert-details.html#prevalence-section): Describe what prevalence is and how it's calculated. 
      - Prevalence details: Explain how to use the table in the Correlations sub-tab.

Reviewer 2: that's exactly what I was thinking yes. I like that for each bullet points above you have a sentence describing the functiontality in the right panel then a section where you provide more details about the left panel

Author: Ok cool. I'll rework the structure for the Insights main section. A lot of the explanatory material for the expanded view in the left panel already exists, so spinning up a new draft shouldn't take too long.

Author: Resolving in next batch of updates.

* **Alerts related by source event**: Shows alerts that were created by the same source event. This can help you find alerts with a shared origin and provide more context about the source event. 
* **Cases related to the alert**: Shows the total number and names of cases to which the alert has been added.
* **Alerts related by session ID**: Shows alerts that generated during the same <<session-view, session>>. These alerts share the same session ID, which is a unique ID for tracking a given Linux session. 
+
NOTE: To use this feature, you must enable the **Include session data** setting in your {elastic-defend} integration policy. Refer to <<enable-session-view, Enable Session View data>> for more information.
* **Alerts related by process ancestry**: Shows alerts that are related by process events on the same linear branch. When you examine this information further, note that alerts generated from processes on child or related branches are not shown. 
+
NOTE: To access data about alerts related by process ancestry, you must have a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or higher subscription].

[discrete]
[[prevalence-section]]

> === Prevalence

Reviewer 2: I feel like it could be valuable to have a `Prevalence overview` section here before the `Prevalence sub-tab you have`. The reason being that this section has a little bit of logic that is not intuitive to the users:
- for each highlighted field key-value pairs, we calculate the host prevalence, then only show some data if the prevalence is between 0 and 10%, in the form of a sentence that would look like this:
`field, value is uncommon`

Author: @PhilippeOberti does this section examine host events only? I thought both host and user events were examined in the prevalence calculations. I mainly say this because the copy we discussed in Slack with @christineweng and @paulewing indicates that both types of events are considered.

Reviewer 2: The prevalence overview (right panel) only shows data based on host prevalence.
The prevalence details (left panel) shows alert count, document count, host prevalence and user prevalence data.

The Prevalence sub-section shows how often data from the alert was observed on other host and user events. Prevalence calculations use data from the alert's highlighted fields and examine user and host events that occurred during the last 30 days. Click **Prevalence** to further examine prevalence data in the <<prevalence-sub-tab,Prevalence sub-tab>>. 

[discrete]
[[prevalence-sub-tab]]
==== Prevalence sub-tab

The **Prevalence** sub-tab on the left panel shows relationships with other alerts, events, users, and hosts. Update the date time picker to show data from a different time range. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/prevalence-sub-tab-lp.png[Table within the Prevalence sub-tab]

The following details are provided:

* **Field**: Shows <<investigation-section,highlighted fields>> for the alert.
* **Value**: Shows values for highlighted fields. 
* **Alert count**: Shows the total number of alert documents that have identical field values, including the alert you're currently examining. For example, if the `host.name` field alert count is 5, there are five total alerts with the same `host.name` field value.
+

> NOTE: Alert documents contain the {ecs-re}ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[`event.kind:signal`] field-value pair.  

Author: @PhilippeOberti would you mind reviewing this note and the one for the document count column as well - thanks!

> NOTE: Alert documents contain the {ecs-ref}ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[`event.kind:signal`] field-value pair.  

Author: @PhilippeOberti would you mind reviewing this note and the one for the document count column as well - thanks!

* **Document count**: Shows the total number of event documents that have identical field values. A dash (`——`) displays if there are no event documents that match the field value.
+

> NOTE: Event documents contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-event[`event.kind:event`] field-value pair.  

Reviewer 2: `event.kind:event` is not correct here. This columns shows all the documents where `event.kind` is NOT `signal`.
There are plenty of `event.kind` values other than `event`. These are all the values that I'm aware of:
- alert
- asset
- enrichment
- event
- metric
- state
- pipeline_error
- signal

So while the alerts count column shows all the documents with `event.kind: signal`, the documents count columns show all the documents with `event.kind` NOT `signal`

Author: @PhilippeOberti thanks for clarifying this. My notes show that Event count column queries documents that contain `event.kind` NOT `signal`, but I wasn't clear whether that meant everything _except for_ `event.kind:signal` or if was only event docs that specifically contained `event.kind:event`. If it's the former, I can update the description and note as follows:

> * **Document count**: Shows the total number of event documents that have identical field values. A dash (`——`) displays if there are no documents that match the field value.
> +
> NOTE: The Document count column only retrieves documents that _don't_ contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[`event.kind:signal`] field-value pair.  

I'd also update the note for the Alert document column to be:

> NOTE: The Alert document column only retrieves documents that contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[`event.kind:signal`] field-value pair.

Reviewer 2: yup it is the former :)

Author: Resolving in next batch of updates.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expanded-threat-intelligence-view.png[Expanded view of threat intelligence on the alert, 70%]

The expanded Threat intelligence view shows individual indicators within the alert document. You can expand and collapse indicator details by clicking the arrow button at the end of the indicator label. Each indicator is labelled with values from the `matched.field` and `matched.atomic` fields and displays the threat intelligence provider. 

Matched threats are organized into two sections, described below. Within each section, matched threats are shown in reverse chronological order, with the most recent at the top. All mapped fields are displayed for each matched threat.

**Threat match detected**

The Threat match detected section is only populated with data if you're examining an alert that was generated from an indicator match rule. Indicator matches are logged in this section when certain field values in the alert document match with threat intelligence data you've ingested. 

**Fields enriched with threat intelligence**

> Threat intelligence can also be found on alerts that weren't generated from indicator match rules. To make this data discoverable, {elastic-sec} enriches fields containing threat intelligence. Enriched fields are appended with `threat.indicator`. For example, if an alert document contains the `file.hash.md5` field, and the field's value matches a known indicator, {elastic-sec} appends the `file.hash.md5` field with `threat.indicator`.

Reviewer 3: Also not really understand what this section means.

From reading this, I understood that we enrich alert documents with threat.indicator field, but that's not what happened.

This enrichment is real-time and doesn't change alert document

We use threat.indicator to make a match with alert fields

<img width="933" alt="Screenshot 2023-09-08 at 13 04 54" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/7609147/26ca419d-5227-4b9b-b5f4-d5602e5644a5">

Reviewer 3: Here some [dev docs ](https://docs.elastic.dev/security-solution/dev-docs/detections/threat-intel/backend#investigation-time-enrichments) which we have 

The process is described in this document:
>gather threat intelligence on an alert, {elastic-sec} queries alert documents from the past 30 days and searches for fields that contain known threat intelligence. {elastic-sec} looks for the following fields:..

About this quote
>Elastic Security appends the file. hash.md5 field with threat. indicator

Yes, we query data from the threat indicators index. Then we don't change alerts actually, we just show on flyout information about this threat indicator. 
So we get info from this field - `threat.indicator` , but it not present in alert

Author: Thanks for linking to the additional docs, @nikitaindik. If I'm understanding the dev docs correctly, alert docs are queried for the same indicator fields, regardless of the alert type. The main differences seems to be when the query is executed and how/where the query results persist. I'm not sure how important it is to share this detail, but it might still be useful to describe the query at a high-level. How's this:

```suggestion
Threat intelligence can also be found on alerts that weren't generated from indicator match rules. {elastic-sec} queries the alert document for fields that contain known indicators and displays matched indicators in this section. 
```

Reviewer 3: yes, the proposal changes look better from my perspective!

+
preview::[]

* **Related cases**: Shows cases to which the alert has been added. Click a case's name to open its details.
* **Alerts related by source event**: Shows alerts created by the same source event. This can help you find alerts with a shared origin and provide more context about the source event. Click the *Investigate in timeline* button to examine related alerts in Timeline.
* **Alerts related by session**: Shows alerts generated during the same <<session-view, session>>. These alerts share the same session ID, which is a unique ID for tracking a given Linux session. To use this feature, you must enable the *Include session data* setting in your {elastic-defend} integration policy. Refer to <<enable-session-view, Enable Session View data>> for more information.
* **Alerts related by ancestry**: Shows alerts that are related by process events on the same linear branch. Note that alerts generated from processes on child or related branches are not shown. To further examine alerts, click *Investigate in timeline*.

[discrete]
[[prevalence-overview]]
=== Prevalence

> The Prevalence overview shows whether data from the alert was frequently observed on other host events from the last 30 days. Prevalence calculations use values from the alert’s highlighted fields and results are displayed as percentages. Highlighted field values are considered prevalent, or _common_, if they're observed on over 10% of hosts in your environment. Highlighted field values are considered not prevalent, or _uncommon_, if they're observed on less than 10% of hosts in your environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Prevalence overview shows whether data from the alert was frequently observed on other host events from the last 30 days. Prevalence calculations use values from the alert’s highlighted fields. Highlighted field observed on less than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered not prevalent, or _uncommon_, and are therefore displayed in the Prevalence overview. Highlighted field values observed on over 10% of hosts in your environment are considered prevalent, or _common_, and are not listed in the Prevalence overview. 
```

Author: Making some minor editorial tweaks to the edited sentences. 

```suggestion
The Prevalence overview shows whether data from the alert was frequently observed on other host events from the last 30 days. Prevalence calculations use values from the alert’s highlighted fields. Highlighted field values that are observed on less than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered uncommon (not prevalent) and are mentioned in the Prevalence overview. Highlighted field values that are observed on more than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered common (prevalent) and are not mentioned in the Prevalence overview. 
```

- `registry.path`: The full registry path, including the hive, key, and value

TIP: Use the date time picker to modify the query time frame, which looks at the past 30 days by default. You can also click the **Inspect** button to examine the query that the Fields enriched with threat intelligence section uses.

[discrete]
[[correlations-overview]]
=== Correlations 

The Correlations overview shows how an alert is related to other alerts and offers ways to investigate related alerts. Use this information to quickly find patterns between alerts and then take action. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/correlations-overview.png[Overview of available correlation data, 60%]

The Correlations overview provides the following information: 

* **Suppressed alerts**: Indicates that the alert was created with alert suppression, and shows how many duplicate alerts were suppressed. This information only appears if alert suppression is enabled for the rule.
* **Alerts related by source event**: Shows the number of alerts that were created by the same source event.  
* **Cases related to the alert**: Shows the number of cases to which the alert has been added.

> * **Alerts related by session ID**: Shows the number of alerts that generated during the same session. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Alerts related by session ID**: Shows the number of alerts generated by the same session. 
```

+
preview::[]

* **Related cases**: Shows cases to which the alert has been added. Click a case's name to open its details.
* **Alerts related by source event**: Shows alerts created by the same source event. This can help you find alerts with a shared origin and provide more context about the source event. Click the *Investigate in timeline* button to examine related alerts in Timeline.
* **Alerts related by session**: Shows alerts generated during the same <<session-view, session>>. These alerts share the same session ID, which is a unique ID for tracking a given Linux session. To use this feature, you must enable the *Include session data* setting in your {elastic-defend} integration policy. Refer to <<enable-session-view, Enable Session View data>> for more information.
* **Alerts related by ancestry**: Shows alerts that are related by process events on the same linear branch. Note that alerts generated from processes on child or related branches are not shown. To further examine alerts, click *Investigate in timeline*.

[discrete]
[[prevalence-overview]]
=== Prevalence

> The Prevalence overview shows whether data from the alert was frequently observed on other host events from the last 30 days. Prevalence calculations use values from the alert’s highlighted fields. Highlighted field values that are observed on less than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered uncommon (not prevalent) and are mentioned in the Prevalence overview. Highlighted field values that are observed on more than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered common (prevalent) and are not mentioned in the Prevalence overview. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Prevalence overview shows whether data from the alert was frequently observed on other host events from the last 30 days. Prevalence calculations use values from the alert’s highlighted fields. Highlighted field values that are observed on less than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered uncommon (not prevalent), and appear in the Prevalence overview. 
```

Author: So, I want to keep both of these statements because users see information about host prevalence in both situations. To elaborate, if highlighted field values are observed frequently across multiple host events in the user's env, they should see this message:
<img width="460" alt="commonly-observed-host-values" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/79124755/059e38f0-96af-4cc6-8aac-dc31dd9d8a19">

(cc @PhilippeOberti and @christineweng to verify this. This is also another copy message we'll probably need to tweak in a future release because I wrote this based on [this Slack convo](https://elastic.slack.com/archives/C05QD3H5D9A/p1693421581093329), which includes host and user events in the logic/calculations for the Prevalence section)

If highlighted field values _aren't_ observed frequently across multiple host events in the user's env (i.e., the host events are uncommon), they should see something like this:

<img width="436" alt="uncommon-host-values" src="https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/assets/79124755/3272b3a0-bcbd-4d3f-8a15-1f8554b5cc96">

Author: Would it be more accurate or clear, if I modified the text as so:

```suggestion
The Prevalence overview shows whether data from the alert was frequently observed on other host events from the last 30 days. Prevalence calculations use values from the alert’s highlighted fields. Highlighted field values that are observed on less than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered uncommon (not prevalent) and are listed individually in the Prevalence overview. Highlighted field values that are observed on more than 10% of hosts in your environment are considered common (prevalent) and are described as frequently observed in the Prevalence overview. 
```

Author: Confirmed with @PhilippeOberti via Slack that the above text is accurate.

[discrete]
[[expanded-prevalence-view]]
==== Expanded prevalence view

From the right panel, click **Prevalence** to open the expanded Prevalence view within the left panel. Examine the table to understand the alert's relationship with other alerts, events, users, and hosts.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/expanded-prevalence-view.png[Expanded view of prevalence data]

The expanded Prevalence view provides the following details:

TIP: Update the date time picker for the table to show data from a different time range. 

* **Field**: Shows <<investigation-section,highlighted fields>> for the alert and any custom highlighted fields that were added to the alert's rule.

* **Value**: Shows values for highlighted fields and any custom highlighted fields that were added to the alert's rule.
//Link to custom highlighted field docs.

> * **Alert count**: Shows the total number of alert documents that have identical highlighted field values, including the alert you're currently examining. For example, if the `host.name` field has an alert count of 5, that means there are five total alerts with the same `host.name` value. The Alert document column only retrieves documents that contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[event.kind:signal] field-value pair.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Alert count**: Shows the total number of alert documents that have identical highlighted field values, including the alert you're currently examining. For example, if the `host.name` field has an alert count of 5, that means there are five total alerts with the same `host.name` value. The Alert document column only retrieves documents that contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[`event.kind:signal`] field-value pair.
```

> * **Document count**: Shows the total number of event documents that have identical field values. A dash (`——`) displays if there are no event documents that match the field value. The Document count column only retrieves documents that don't contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[event.kind:signal] field-value pair.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Document count**: Shows the total number of event documents that have identical field values. A dash (`——`) displays if there are no event documents that match the field value. The Document count column only retrieves documents that don't contain the {ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-kind.html#ecs-event-kind-signal[`event.kind:signal`] field-value pair.
```
